1) What SQL injection is

SQL injection (SQLi) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with the queries that an application makes to its database.

This can let an attacker:

view data they should not normally be able to retrieve
access data belonging to other users
access any other data the application can reach
modify or delete data, causing persistent changes to the application’s content or behaviour
in some situations, compromise the underlying server or other back-end infrastructure
in some situations, perform denial of service (DoS) attacks
Simple idea

A website sends commands to a database. If user input is placed inside those commands without proper protection, an attacker can change what the database does.

Very simple example

A website has a login box:

Username: hamd
Password: 1234

the website might run a query like:
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'hamd' AND password = '1234';

This means:

go to the database
find a user with this username and password

The problem starts when the website trusts what the user types.

If an attacker types:

' OR 1=1 --

SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = '' OR 1=1 -- 
OR 1=1 is always true
-- comments out the rest of the query

So the database thinks:

“This condition is true, so let them in.”

This is a login bypass.


SQL injection means typing something into a website that changes the database command.

An attacker may be able to:

view data
change or delete data
take over the system in advanced cases
crash the system with DoS in some cases

You can detect SQL injection using a systematic set of tests against every entry point in the application.

Main tests
A. Submit a single quote

Try sending: ' 
and look for:

errors
strange behaviour
any unusual response

Why this matters:

SQL uses quotes like 'admin'
sending ' might break the query


Use SQL-specific syntax

Try input that evaluates to the original value of the entry point, and also to a different value, then compare the responses.

You are looking for:

systematic differences in application behaviour
changes in page content
changes in error messages
C. Use boolean conditions

Try payloads such as:
OR 1=1
OR 1=2

and compare the responses.

1=1 is true
1=2 is false

If the responses differ, that can indicate SQL injection.

D. Use time-delay payloads

Try payloads designed to trigger a delay when executed within a SQL query.

Example idea:
SLEEP(5)

If the page suddenly takes around 5 seconds to respond, the input may be being executed inside the database.

E. Use OAST payloads

OAST payloads are designed to trigger an out-of-band network interaction when executed within a SQL query.

If the target makes a network request that you can monitor, that can confirm SQL injection.

Tooling

You can also use Burp Scanner to find the majority of SQL injection vulnerabilities quickly and reliably.

It does this by:

automatically trying payloads
checking responses
looking for vulnerabilities faster than manual testing


SQL injection can happen anywhere your input is used inside a database query.

The most common place is the WHERE clause.

A. WHERE clause in a SELECT query

Example:
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'input';
Meaning:

get everything from the users table
only where username matches the input

This is common in:

login forms
search boxes

A basic injection example is:
' OR 1=1 --


UPDATE users SET password = 'newpass' WHERE username = 'input';
If vulnerable, an attacker could:

change someone else’s password
alter records they should not control



SELECT input FROM users;
If input is not safe, an attacker may control what data is selected.

SELECT * FROM products ORDER BY input;
If vulnerable, you may not always be able to inject a full query, but you can still:

test column numbers
extract information

SELECT

SELECT means get data.

FROM

FROM users means get data from the users table.

WHERE

WHERE means only return rows where the condition is true.


SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'admin';
This means:

get everything
from the users table
only if the username is admin

username = '' OR 1=1 -- '
1=1 = always true
-- = ignore the rest



A shopping application displays products in different categories.

When the user clicks on the Gifts category, the browser requests a URL like:
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts

This causes the application to make an SQL query to retrieve details of the relevant products from the database:
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' AND released = 1

It asks the database to return:

all details (*)
from the products table
where the category is Gifts
and where released = 1

The released = 1 restriction hides products that are not released.

If the application does not defend against SQL injection, an attacker can manipulate the category parameter.
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'--
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'--' 

-- is a comment indicator in SQL, so the rest of the query is ignored.

That means the query no longer includes:

AND released = 1
So all products may be displayed, including unreleased products.



https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+OR+1=1--
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' OR 1=1--
Because 1=1 is always true, the query can return all items.

Be careful when injecting OR 1=1 into a SQL query. Even if it looks harmless in one place, applications may reuse the same request data in multiple queries. If the condition reaches an UPDATE or DELETE statement, it could cause accidental data loss.

For the lab:

the application contains a SQL injection vulnerability in the product category filter
when the user selects a category, the application runs a query like:

SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' AND released = 1

to solve the lab, the goal is to inject SQL so the application displays one or more released products
in the example, clicking Corporate Gifts showed a URL such as:

https://0a0200f6035b0b9c80875df400f300d8.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Corporate+Gifts

the injection used was:
'+OR+1=1--



Scenario

An application allows users to log in with a username and password.
If a user submits:

username: wiener
password: bluecheese
then the application checks the credentials with a query like:

SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'wiener' AND password = 'bluecheese'

If the query returns the details of a user, the login is successful. Otherwise, it is rejected.

Using the SQL comment sequence --, you can remove the password check from the WHERE clause.

Example username input:
administrator'--

with a blank or random password.

This can produce a query like:
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'administrator'--'

he password part is commented out, so the database only checks for the username administrator.

That can log the attacker in as that user.

Lab summary

For the lab:

the application has a SQL injection vulnerability in the login function
the goal is to log in as the administrator user
on the login screen, the username entered was:
administrator'--
the password check was commented out
a random password could then be entered
the login succeeded as administrator



If the application shows the results of a SQL query, an attacker can sometimes use SQL injection to retrieve data from other tables in the database.

The UNION keyword lets you execute an additional SELECT query and append the results to the original query.

Example original query

If an application executes the following query containing the user input Gifts:
SELECT name, description FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'

SELECT name, description → what data to show
FROM products → which table to read from
WHERE category = 'Gifts' → only rows that match the category

An attacker can submit:
' UNION SELECT username, password FROM users--
This changes the query to
SELECT name, description FROM products WHERE category = '' UNION SELECT username, password FROM users--';

What this does
UNION combines the results of two queries
the application may return usernames and passwords along with the product data
Important rule

The queries combined with UNION must have:

the same number of columns
compatible data types



Blind SQL injection vulnerabilites
- The application does not return the results of the SQL query or the details of any database errors within its responses
-Blind vulnerabilites can still be exploited to access unorthorised data but the techniques involed are more complicated

You can change the logic of the query to trigger a detectable difference in the application's response depending on the truth of a single condition. this might involve injecting a new condition into some Boolean logic, or condtionally triggering an error such as divide by zero

You can trigger a time delay in the processing of the query, this enables you ti infer the truth og the condition based on the time that the application takes to respond

You can trigger an out of band network interaction using OAST techniques. this technique works in situatios where others do not . you can directly exfiltrate data via the out of band channel , e.g. you can place the data into a DNS lookup for a domain that you control.

Second order SQL injection

First order SQL injection occurs when the application processes user input from an HTTP request and incorporates the input into a SQL query in an unsafe way.

Second order SQL injection occurs when the application takes user input from an HTTP request and storesit for future use. . this is usually done by placing the input into a databse., but no vulnerability occurs at the point where the data is stored. Later, when handling a different HTTP request, application retrieves the stroed data and incorporates it into a SQL query in an unsafe way.
this often occurs in situations where developers are aware of SQL injection vulnerabilites and so safely handle the initial placement of the input into the database . when the data is later processes, it is deemed to be safe since it was previously placed into the databse safely. at this point the data is handled in an unsafe way, because the developer wringly deems it to be trusted.

The hacker types something into a form, the website stores it safely and nothing bad happens yet. later the website readsthat stroed value and uses it in a new sql query unsafely.

Examining the database

Some core features of the SQL language are implemented in the same way across popular database platforms, and so many ways of detecting and exploiting SQL injection vulnerabilities work identically on different types of database.

However, there are also many differences between common databases. These mean that some techniques for detecting and exploiting SQL injection work differently on different platforms. For example:

Syntax for string concatenation.
Comments.
Batched (or stacked) queries.
Platform-specific APIs.
Error messages.

( some attacks work everywher,some attacks need to be adjusted based on the database)

Different databases are like different dialects:

Same core language (SQL)
Slightly different “accents” (syntax)

These usually work across most databases:

SELECT, FROM, WHERE
OR 1=1
basic UNION attacks

some databses use differen tcommesnts instead of -- e..g # /**/

Stacked (batched) queries
his means running multiple queries at once
SELECT * FROM users; DROP TABLE users;

some databses allow this and some block it completely


After you identify a sgql injection vulnerability it is often useful to obtain information about the databse, this information can help you rxploit the vulnerability 
You can query the version details for the database, different methods work for different database types e.g. in oracle you can:
SELECT * FROM v$version

You can also identify what database tables exist, and the columns they contain. For example, on most databases you can execute the following query to list the tables:
SELECT * FROM information_schema.tables


You can perform sql injection  attacks using any controllable input that is processed as a sql query by the aplication. For example, some websites take input in JSON or XML format and use this to query the database.
Websites can take input in different formats:

JSON
XML
forms
headers

For example, the following XML-based SQL injection uses an XML escape sequence to encode the S character in SELECT:
<stockCheck>
    <productId>123</productId>
    <storeId>999 &#x53;ELECT * FROM information_schema.tables</storeId>
</stockCheck>

This will be decoded server-side before being passed to the SQL interpreter.


Preventing an SQL injection
You can prevent most instances of SQL injection using parameterized queries instead of string concatenation within the query.

The following code is vulnerable to SQL injection because the user input is concatenated directly into the query:
String query = "SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = '"+ input + "'";
Statement statement = connection.createStatement();
ResultSet resultSet = statement.executeQuery(query);

You can rewrite this code in a way that prevents the user input from interfering with the query structure:

PreparedStatement statement = connection.prepareStatement("SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = ?");
statement.setString(1, input);
ResultSet resultSet = statement.executeQuery();
